[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Again, there are no cases
where there's an absolute right answer.
But I'm going to give you kind of a basic
first pass at how we might construct
a module pattern for this code.
The first thing to note is that we've
got this variable that has data in it,
and if you read the read me,
you'd see this is not data we want
to internalize into our module.
So we're gonna wanna take that stuff,
kinda probably move it down to the bottom,
cuz we're gonna deal with
that in just a moment.
So I'll just move that down and
out of there.
But to create our module,
what's the first step that we need to do?
We need to create a variable that's
gonna be our module instance.
I'll call mine NotesManager.
You can call it whatever
you want obviously.
In this case I'll do an IIFE,
although it's not technically
required that it be an IIFE.
I will indent all of that just for
good measure, and
then I'll close out my IIFE.
And now that I've got an IIFE,
I've accomplished the task of
making everything private.
So I've at least made that task already.
But that's only the first
part of our module pattern.
The second part of our module pattern
is we need to return a public API.
So, we're probably gonna want to do
something like publicAPI equals,
and have some object here, and
then we want to return that publicAPI.
The readme told us that we needed
two different methods for our API,
one we called init, and
we already have an init method,
so I'll just make it a reference
to the existing init method.
And then the second one, it said you
could call it whatever you want,
I call mine loadData, but
you can call it whatever you want.
>> Kyle Simpson: I need to actually
implement that function, so loadData,
the purpose of it is to take
[COUGH] an array of records and
add them to our existing internal array.
So we can say data, and we can say notes,
which is gonna be our internal array,
is equal to
notes.concat(data).
So we wanna keep a internal notes array
that will start out initially as empty,
and then we have this load data function.
Now, that's all I've had to change and
I've created myself a module.
Cuz you'll notice that I have a notes
manager variable, it's an instance from my
module, it's getting an object that has
two methods on it, init and loadData.
So I can come down here to the init and
that would change to be NotesManager.init,
and then I need to do something
with this notes array so
I would say NotesManager.loadData.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
I'm passing in an array of my data.
Now, we're just kind of hand waving and
pretending that,
that data comes from a database or
from local storage or whatever.
But we're loading in this data,
pushing that into our NotesManager and
then calling the NotesManager.init
when the DOM is ready,
using the jQuery's DOM ready event.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: This is kind of
a weird question maybe, but
your IIFE up at the top.
>> Speaker 1: You say bar notes
manager equals anonymous function?
If you were to say function and
name that function capital N notes,
capital M manager, what does notes
manager refer to in the global scope?
>> Kyle Simpson: In the global scope,
it's only this one, because remember
with the function expressions,
this name doesn't refer,
it's not bound in the outer scope.
>> Speaker 1: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: So this name would be
bound only in the internal scope and
not in the outer scope.
So the outer scope would
only have this variable and
what would be confusing here is
that in the interscope you would
reference a notes manager
which referenced the function.
But in the outerscope,
Notes Manager would reference the return
value from the function call.
>> Speaker 1: Right.
>> Kyle Simpson: So that would be kind of
a confusing thing, but
you could certainly name this thing,
module factory or
whatever you want to name it.
>> Speaker 1: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: The other thing to point
out is [COUGH] everybody see so far,
any questions about how we
constructed our module?
You can see it took very little code to
take a big file of spaghetti code and
organize it into a well
thought out module.
And, in general, that's what you'll find,
it doesn't really take as much
code as you might think to
turn your code into a module.
Couple of things to point out,
first off I said we don't
actually have to use an IIFE.
In this particular case I used an IIFE
because I only needed one module, so it's
sort of like let's just take my little
module factory and automatically call it.
But what if I did theoretically want
to be able to make multiple modules.
Well all I have to do is take it
from being a IIFE to just being
a plain old function, and then instead
of using NotesManager as an instance,
I can say myNotes equals NotesManager,
and your notes equals notes manager.
And I can make multiple one's of those by
simply calling the factory multiple times.
And instead of calling loadData I say
myNotes.loadData and MyNotes.init.
Does everybody see that?
So modules don't require an IIFE,
but a lot of times I would say the vast
majority of times that I've experienced,
you create modules and
you only ever need one of them.
In fact, I would go so far as to say,
I very rarely have ever seen anybody
need multiple instances of anything.
It just isn't that common in JavaScript.
We think theoretically,
I'll create these classes and
I'll be able to theoretically
instantiate hundreds of them,
and in reality we only ever create one or
two of them anyway.
So for me, modules and the IIFE pattern,
they work pretty well.
We did note that there on lines 110 and
111 we'd be creating multiple copies
of all that internal function.
So there might be some
downside if you were
legitimately gonna create
lots of module instances.
Slight performance downside.
Probably not a big deal, unless you're
creating maybe tens of thousands.
But most of the time,
we end up only creating one, anyway.
So Singleton powder works well.
One other thing just to
point out real quick,
I won't belabor it but there is a mention
in here, this point four down here,
it talks about the structure of our code
with relation to our dom references.
So you'll note the inside of my code I've
got a whole bunch of manual references to
dom id's, and that's not a very good
robust pattern for a module, because
now I'm required to have the exact same
dom structure everywhere for this to work.
It's not that difficult for
us to abstract some of that away.
So one quick pass at how I might do
something like that is I might have-
>> Kyle Simpson: I'll just do one of them,
but you can note how we
would do many of these.
I can say that notes, and
by the way my convention for
jQuery is I put dollar sign in front of
variables that are jQuery references.
It's just a convention,
it's not a requirement.
So I get a jQuery reference to
the selector that I pass in, and
then everywhere, instead of saying this,
I just say $notes.
I just reuse that reference
all over the place.
And then to pass that in down here in
the init,
>> Kyle Simpson: I
pass in an object that
has that selector in it.
>> Kyle Simpson: Does
everybody see how I did that?
And I could do that for
all of my dom references.
I could pass them in from external and
very quickly I've turned my module from
being kind of hard coded against
a particular dom to being much more
generalizable against multiple
different kinds of dom.
Those are the sorts of things
you want to think about
when you are modularizing code.
You want to think about that reusability,
the flexibility, how general can we make
it without having to go too far
in terms of modifying with code.
All right,
anymore questions on exercise two?
>> Kyle Simpson: I see in the chat
that there's a question about,
why did I put the function here?
So this is a very common question.
If I were to take out this
function wrapper, and
I were to simply call my
notes init like that,
the problem is that I'm not actually
deferring that function call to be on
document ready anymore, because this
function call will happen right away, and
whatever his return value is, is what
would get passed in to the ready function.
Which is not what we want.
We want for the init to not happen
until after the dom ready is fired.
So if we need to pass in
parameters like that,
we have to do this function indirection.
>> Kyle Simpson: Hopefully that answers
James's question on the chat room.